# Git Installation
- Go to [Official Git Website](https://git-scm.com/) and download the appropriate version of git for your system
- Install the application
- Configure the git in your system with the following commands
```bash
git config --global user.name "your-github-username"
git config --global user.email "your-email-in-github@gmail.com"
```
- Check if the configuration is successful with
```bash
git config --list
```
*If your email and username are in the list then the configuration is successful*


# Creating Github Repository
## Process - 1 (Using GitHub)
- Goto Github [Repository](https://github.com/new) and create a New Repository
- Provide a project name
- Set project privacy to Private/Public (Do not select Add a README file, .gitignore, or license, as you already have a local repository)
- Click Create Repository
#### _Github will create a repository and provide Commands to execute in your project directory_


## Adding Created Project to the repository
- Goto project directory or open VSCode or Other IDE Terminal(If Any)
- Execute the following commands
```
git init
git add .
git commit -m "First Commit"
git remote add origin your-repository-URL
git push -u origin main
```
- If you're using Git for the first time Git will ask for GitHub authorization
- Click on Open in Browser
- And click Authorize
#### _Boom 💥 Your project will be uploaded to the GitHub in no time_


# Some Basic Commands 
### Basic Git Commands for Beginners _Note: Run the commands in the project's root directory CMD/Git Bash/IDE Terminal_

#### 1. Initialize a Repository
```bash
git init
```
Initializes a new Git repository in the current directory.

#### 2. Clone a Repository
```bash
git clone repository-URL
```
Creates a copy of an existing Git repository. Find the repository URL in your repository -> Code Option

#### 3. Commit Changes
```bash
git commit -m "Commit message"
```
Records changes to the repository with a message.

#### 4. View Commit History
```bash
git log
```
Displays the commit history.

#### 5. Push Changes to Remote Repository
```bash
git push origin branch-name
```
Pushes changes to the remote repository.

#### 6. Pull Changes from Remote Repository
```bash
git pull
```
Fetches and merges changes from the remote repository.
#### 7. Create a New Branch
```bash
git branch branch-name
```
Creates a new branch.

#### 8. Switch to a Branch
```bash
git checkout branch-name
```
Switches to the specified branch.

#### 9. Merge a Branch
```bash
git merge branch-name
```
Merges the specified branch into the current branch.

#### 10. Check Repository Status
```bash
git status
```
Displays the state of the working directory and the staging area.

#### 11. Add Files to Staging Area
```bash
git add file-name
```
Adds a file to the staging area.
